# Morning writing

# Effective maps get you where you want to go
There is a lot of hand-wringing in the data world about data quantity and data quality. Amid that murmur, there is almost no consideration for a far more important concern: data *intentionality*.

## Why is intentionality so important?
Ultimately, what we want is for our use of data to be *effective*. To measure this we must have an *intention* for its use. We measure how well the data helped us toward our intention.

## Data is a map 
We all know the 'map is not the territory', so no matter how high the resolution of our map, we're not looking at base reality. Don't get me wrong, resolution is great! What's important though is *does the map get us where we're going?*

To answer this question we need a place we want to go, we need an *intention*.

## Quality tautology
Let's examine data quality as it currently is practiced, so we can understand how that fits in with intentionality as well. Typically data quality is meant to ensure that we're passing from one node to another reliably and our transformational logic is doing what we want. This is fine. Necessary even, but this is just ensuring our map has been printed well.

We cannot use data quality checks as they currently stand to measure the *effectiveness* of our data systems. They can only measure internal validity and accuracy. They say nothing about external validity, about how our data generalizes to the world we're attempting to move through. quality because the places on the map are where we put them.

## Go-to-market motion
How's that for a bit of business lingo?
- org is like a giant robot
- knowing how to pilot the robot is important
- we need a map to actually make the robot go in a direction we want to go

## Experiments and quantifiable targets
- jumping to OKRs without building the ability to set a single goal, measure it, and reach it, and to run basic experiments -- is like doing a 'couch-to-marathon' training program. Some people succeed, most don't. Many hurt themselves.

First learn to jog a 5k in the neighborhood you know, and then ramp up the complexity, distance, and number of places you want to run to on your map. You may have more success, and more enjoyment.

Happy orienteering.
------
- experiments!
- statistics!
- incrementality!
- 
true and false? booleans can exist only inside a relative *way of looking*. what we want to determine in analytics engineering is whether our way of looking is *beneficial* or *detrimental*. 

our goal is to find the areas that are most beneficial and clarify them for more benefit, and to seek out detrimental ways of looking and fix them or forget them.

this can only be done in an environment of focus, trust, and transparency. 